---
layout: post
title: "Google Summer of Code Projects"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Stefan Wallentowitz
---

We are happy to announce we have six students in this years'
[Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/). We are
very grateful to Google to support the students financially to bring
the Free and Open Source Silicon community forward.

Below you can find a list of the great projects we have this
year. There will be regular updates and we will soon publish how you
can follow the projects individually.

We are looking forward to a great summer!

## Code quality metrics for projects listed on LibreCores.org

Student: Amitosh Swain Mahapatra

Mentors: Oleg Nenashev, Philipp Wagner

[LibreCores.org](https://librecores.org) lists free and open source
"IP Cores" on the website for the community to view and use. All
listed projects are backed by a git repository. Currently,
LibreCores.org websites, extracts the project readme and license and
renders them on the project page, along with links to the project
homepage and git repository.

A user browsing for cores on LibreCores will be interested to know the
quality of the project's code so as to determine how useful the
project will be to them. Such information can be obtained from
feedback from users using the project, and also from the project’s
code.

This projects aims to collect code quality data that can be extracted,
from a project's git repository. Such metrics may be from repository
metadata as well as from the structure and content of source
files. Collected metrics will also be enhanced when additional sources
for metrics are available. Individual metrics would be combined to
calculate the overall repository code quality which may be further
used for purposes such as search ranking.

## EDSAC Museum on FPGA

Student: Hatim Kanchwala

Mentor: Jeremy Bennett

Electronic Delay Storage Automatic Calculator (EDSAC) is a first
generation British computer commissioned in 1949. It was built by
Maurice Wilkes and his team at the University of Cambridge
Mathematical Laboratory. EDSAC is the world's first stored-program
computer.

The project's goal is to reimagine the EDSAC on modern hardware, with
the ultimate objective to make the historic computer accessible to and
reproducible by a new generation of computer architects and
engineers. Investigating the evolution of computing techniques gives
architects and engineers context to modern concepts of computer
architecture, organisation and design.

The historic computer, complete with all its subsystems, will be
replicated on an FPGA, using Verilog HDL, capable of accepting and
executing all EDSAC Orders. To emulate the ancient I/O, various "I/O
flavours" will be designed to interface with the FPGA board, via a
standardised communication protocol. Users can choose, extend and even
add new I/O flavours. An assembler utility will be built in Python,
which users can utilise to debug and build their code for EDSAC, which
can be then loaded onto the FPGA for execution.

## High-level bitstream format for Lattice iCE40 FPGAs

Student: Roland Lutz

Mentors: Martin d'Anjou, Stefan Wallentowitz

This project will create a format which represents the bitstream for a
Lattice iCE40 FPGA in a way which is friendly for humans to read and
write, comparable to what an Assembler language is for machine text.
In contrast to the existing bitstream "explanation" format, it isn't
designed conforming to the way the information is organized in the
bitstream but what functionality the data represents, and it can be
converted back into a bitstream.  It allows to better understand the
output generated by the toolchain, to create small designs "by hand"
or to optimize critical parts of a larger design.

This format is targeted at three audiences:

Beginners: have a tool for understanding the bitstream which the
toolchain generates for a given design, and are able to observe
directly on the FPGA which effect a change in the bitstream has.

Intermediate learners: are able to express a design in a way which is
very close to how the FPGA actually works.

Users: who for some reason needs to exert full control over the
implementation of some part of a design are able to express it in the
new format, comparable to an Assembler block in a C program.

## Integration of a RISC V CPU on LimeSDR project

Student: Cairo Caplan

Mentors: Andrew Back, Zack, Olof Kindgren

[LimeSDR](https://myriadrf.org/projects/limesdr/) is a flexible
software-defined platform, that integrates an FPGA and a Lime
Microsystems LMS7002M field-programmable RF transceiver, that is 2x2
MIMO and can be tuned anywhere from 100KHz to 3.8GHz. The FPGA is
presently used to take care of things such as interfacing, digital
down-conversion and tuning, and sample time-stamping.

This proposal address the need for the LimeSDR project to have an full
open-source FPGA firmware, which includes replacing it's proprietary
NIOS II softcore CPU to a RISC V implementation and adapting the
system to a FuseSoC-based development flow.

## Integration of OpenRISC Linux Port into OpTiMSoC

Student: Pedro Henrique Penna

Mentors: Stefan Wallentowitz, Philipp Wagner

[Open Tiled Manycore System-on-Chip (OpTiMSoC)](https://optimsoc.org)
is an open-source framework that allows one to design and prototype
manycore-based platforms on FPGA devices. In its current status,
OpTiMSoC offers wide support for experimenting different
architectural- level configurations. However, when comes to
benchmarking the prototyped platform at software-level, current
runtime libraries and operating systems still have to be im-
proved. To address this problem, the goal of this project is integrate
OpenRISC Linux Port into OpTiMSoC. To do so, a new manycore
configuration with a Host Tile will be designed and implemented.  The
Host Tile will run OpenRISC Linux and will be able to communicate with
Gzll kernels running on Computing Tiles via message-passing through
the Network-on-Chip (NoC). Overall, the communication infrastructure
will be exported to user-level through standard UNIX file system
operations.

## Updating Sodor

Student: Kritik Bhimani

Mentors: Christopher Celio, Stefan Wallentowitz

Currently [sodor](https://github.com/ucb-bar/riscv-sodor) is written
in out-dated Chisel2, complies to out-dated Priv ISA spec v1.7, not
ported to FPGA

The following are the benefits that I am speculating by "updating sodor":

- I have seen that some individuals (from the mailing list and other
sources) start off with sodor and then move to rocket possible reasons
for this could be since they are quite new to chisel/RISC-V and
starting directly with the large codebase of rocket(which includes a
lot more than the instruction pipeline) could be difficult. Keeping
sodor updated to latest standards of RISC-V ISA/Chisel would help ease
their transition from sodor to rocket (which is continuously being
updated to latest standards)

- It is already used for educational purpose so having it updated
would help teach the latest content and also a better documentation
would definitely help in having an even wider deployment in terms of
number of schools using sodor in undergraduate computer architecture
courses with the port of 3 stage on FPGA providing an even more
complete overview of comp arch
