---
layout: post
title: "Become a GSoC student 2018!"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Stefan Wallentowitz
---

We are happy and honored to be part of the
[Google Summer of Code (GSoC)](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
again this year. We are a mentoring organization and serve as an
umbrella organization for many projects related to open source silicon
design, open source EDA tools and the related ecosystem.

Google Summer of Code is an excellent program for students to get a
stipend by Google to work on open source projects. To start things
off, we have prepared a
[list of project ideas](/gsoc18-ideas.html). As a student you are free
to base your project on one of these ideas, but remember that it is
**your** idea we are looking for, and you should come up with an idea
that you want to work on. Your job is to write a realistic project
proposal to show us that you have a good idea of the work involved,
and discuss the idea with us to get feedback. Our job is to match you
up with a suitable mentor.

As there are more student proposals than we have seats, a well-written
project idea is important for us to judge whether we should choose you
over someone else. It is also a good idea to get involved with the
community early on to get a better feeling for what kind of project
you want to do, and what already exists. For more general information
about what it takes to be a GSoC student, there are several guides
available on the GSoC site, for example
[here](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/manual)

Please get in touch with the project maintainers from the list of
ideas or with other projects you like. We are happy to answer
questions about the program and the application procedure at
[gsoc@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:gsoc@fossi-foundation.org).

Please also get in touch if you have project ideas with your community
and think that FOSSi Foundation is the right umbrella organization for
you!
