---
layout: post
title: "Google Summer of Code 2019 - Kickoff"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Stefan Wallentowitz
---

The [Google Summer of Code
(GSoC)](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) has started and we are
happy to announce that we have seven students working for projects
related to FOSSi Foundation:

#### Analysis of WARP-V on FireSim with RocketChip, Alaa Salman

The WARP-V RISC-V core generator was developed in 2018 as a
configurable, adaptable open-source RISC-V CPU core generator, taking
advantage of advanced digital design features of TL-Verilog. It can be
configured as a low-power, slow-clock, single stage pipeline, a
high-frequency seven-stage pipeline, or anywhere in between. You can
even swap out the RISC-V ISA for a completely different ISA
altogether.

Alaa will to analyze the architectural performance of WARP-V using an
open source tool ‘FireSim’ and RocketChip. FireSim is an open-source
cycle-accurate FPGA-accelerated full-system hardware simulation
platform that runs on cloud FPGAs (Amazon EC2 F1). FireSim is actively
developed in the Berkeley Architecture Research Group in the
Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences Department at the
University of California, Berkeley. Berkeley also releases a Chisel
generator called "Rocket-Chip". RocketChip generator is a Scala
program that invokes the Chisel compiler in order to emit RTL
describing a complete SoC.

#### Continuous Integration for Hardware Projects on LibreCores CI, Nancy Chauhan

Librecores provides a platform to share projects and ideas, in the
area of free and open source digital hardware design. Librecores CI is
an approach/service to provide continuous integration to hardware
projects hosted on Librecores to improve user experience and
reliability. This project aims to provide automation service for some
hardware projects that have a constantly evolving code. Jenkins, the
automation server will be used to achieve the goals of the project.

#### Enhancing JuxtaPiton with X86 Support, Kunal Gulati

JuxtaPiton is an architecture being developed at Princeton's Parallel
Group for heterogeneous ISA research. For this project, Kunal will
replace the existing picorv32 core with the open-source ao486 core to
have x86 ISA support along with the OpenSPARC T1's SPARC V9. This kind
of a heterogeneous system enables reuse of a lot of legacy x86
code. We also try to interface the L1 cache level of ao486 with the
L1.5 cache subsystem of OpenPiton. This allows us to harness Piton’s
P-Mesh subsystem which maintains cache coherency across both the
cores.

#### Extend Librecores.org in terms of User Interactivity and Feedback, Aquib Baig

This project aims to develop user interactivity on the [LibreCores
community hub](https://librecores.org) through a full-fledged
notification system and a platform to record user feedback. The
notification system will be used to notify users associated with
events and by the community to convey information to their audience
i.e. the users, and the user feedback system will be used to determine
the project quality/popularity amongst the developers.

#### FPGA-Accelerated Web Applications, Ákos Hadnagy

Building hardware requires access to costly tools and hardware,
furthermore complexity in hardware design remains a deterrent
force. FPGAs in the cloud solved the high upfront cost of the
hardware, and some aspects of tool availability, but not the
complexity and scale yet. Moreover, reuse of the already existing IPs
is extremely difficult.

For this Summer of Code project, an extension to the [FPGA-Webserver
project](https://github.com/alessandrocomodi/fpga-webserver) is
proposed to provide an end-to-end solution for accelerating web
applications and developing hardware using cloud FPGAs.

A ready-to-use environment like this could potentially accelerate
compute-intensive tasks in web applications and could appear in online
HW design tools as backend.

#### LLVM Code Generation for RISC-V Open Source GPU, Reshabh Sharma

Bespoke Silicon group at University of Washington is working on the
second version of their open source RISC-V manycore processor. They
are also working on a CUDA-light programming environment using
LLVM. In this project Reshabh plan to extend RV32 LLVM backend
incorporating new hardware features.

#### Microarchitectural enhancement of Ariane, Zach Zheng

This project is to add Microarchitectural enhancement of Ariane that
is a popular open-source CPU core implementing the RISC-V ISA
(instruction set architecture). Currently, the processor is
single-issue, meaning that the processor can only issue one
instruction per clock cycle. That is a huge performance bottleneck
since most functional units in the processor will stay idle when it
does not have any instructions to proceed. In this project, I will
implement super-scalar issue logic which allows Ariane to issue two
(or more) instructions in the same clock cycle so that the overall
performance will be greatly improved.

### Next Steps

The coding of the projects has just started and we look forward to an
exciting summer of code and great output. We will keep you posted
about the progress of our students.
