---
layout: post
title: "Become a GSoC student 2021!"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Jonathan Balkind
---

We are delighted to announce that we have once again been selected
as a mentor organisation for the 2021 edition of 
[Google Summer of Code (GSoC)](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
Google Summer of Code is an excellent program for students to receive
a stipend (generously provided by Google) to contribute to open 
source projects in the FOSSi community. As an organisation, we serve
as an umbrella org for projects in the space of open source silicon
design, EDA tools, and the surrounding ecosystem.

For those previously familiar with the program, please note that
this year, there was a significant change. Google have changed the
total expected length of the program from 350 hours to 175 hours
and changed the coding period to span 10 weeks rather than 12.
Further, eligibility has been expanded and so we hope to welcome
new contributors to the FOSSi community as GSoC mentees.

To act as a first point of reference, we have prepared a
[list of project ideas](/gsoc21-ideas.html). As a student you are free
to base your project on one of these ideas, but remember that it is
**your** idea we are looking for, and you should come up with an idea
that you want to work on. Your job is to write a realistic project
proposal (of appropriate scope) to show us that you have a good idea
of the work involved, and discuss the idea with us to get feedback.
Our job is to match you up with a suitable mentor.

As there are more student proposals than the number of slots we 
are likely to receive, a well-written project idea is important for
us to judge your potential success as a FOSSi GSoC mentee. It is also
a good idea to get involved with the community early on (perhaps via 
our [gitter](https://gitter.im/librecores/Lobby) to get a better 
feeling for what kind of project you want to do, and what already 
exists. For more general information about what it takes to be a GSoC 
student, there are several guides available on the GSoC site, for example
[here](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/manual)

Please get in touch with the project maintainers from the list of
ideas or with other projects you like. We are happy to answer
questions about the program and the application procedure at
[gsoc@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:gsoc@fossi-foundation.org).

Please also get in touch if you have project ideas with your community
and think that FOSSi Foundation is the right umbrella organization for
you!

You may also like to check out the following related GSoC orgs:

* [Apertus](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/5025744687726592/)
* [SymbiFlow](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/5137353372336128/)
* [BeagleBoard.org Foundation](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/6398417846140928/)
