---
layout: post
title: "Apply Now For GSoC 2022!"
description: ""
category:
tags: []
author: Jonathan Balkind
---

We have once again been selected as a mentor organisation for
[Google Summer of Code (GSoC) 2022.](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/)
Google Summer of Code is an excellent program for new open-source
contributors to receive a stipend (generously provided by Google) to
contribute to open source projects in the FOSSi community. As an
organisation, we encompass a variety of community projects in the
space of open source silicon design, EDA tools, and the surrounding
ecosystem.

For those previously familiar with the program, please note that this
year, there have been several significant changes. Google are enabling
a mix of 175 hour and 350 hour projects. Eligibility has been expanded
to include those who are not enrolled as students, too! We hope to
welcome many new contributors to the FOSSi community as GSoC mentees.
Please check out the official Google website to understand the new
terms of the program.

To act as a first point of reference, we have prepared a
[list of project ideas](/gsoc22-ideas.html). As a mentee you are free
to base your project on one of these ideas, but remember that it is
**your** idea we are looking for, and you should come up with an idea
that you want to work on, in conjunction with one of our mentors. Your
job is to write a realistic project proposal (of appropriate scope) to
show us that you have a good idea of the work involved, and discuss
the idea with our mentors to get feedback.

As there are more project proposals than the number of slots we 
are likely to receive, a well-written project idea is important for
us to judge your potential success as a FOSSi GSoC mentee. It is also
a good idea to get involved with the community early on (perhaps via 
our [gitter](https://gitter.im/librecores/Lobby) to get a better 
feeling for what kind of project you want to do, and what already 
exists. For more general information about what it takes to be a GSoC 
mentee, there are several guides available on the GSoC site, for example
[here](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/resources/manual)

Please get in touch with the project maintainers from the list of
ideas or with other projects you like. We are happy to answer
questions about the program and the application procedure at
[gsoc@fossi-foundation.org](mailto:gsoc@fossi-foundation.org).

Please also get in touch if you have project ideas with your community
and think that FOSSi Foundation is the right umbrella organization for
you!

You may also like to check out the following related GSoC orgs:

* [Apertus](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/apertus-association)
* [CHIPS Alliance](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/chips-alliance)
* [BeagleBoard.org Foundation](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/beagleboardorg)
